ON: Coding Interviews

## How to get into FAANG
* Prompt: Suggest the best resources for each topic that Faang interviewer can ask. You may include a few books as well if really needed, but I honestly prefer online resources. Also, I will be happier if you give the one resource recommendations for one topic. If you have two recommendations for some of the topics and you feel that I should go through both, then suggest both.
* URL: https://www.rooftopslushie.com/request/How-to-get-into-FAANG---proper-plan-with-sources-241
* The resources you need are fairly straightforward. I’m going to make this one long post and copy paste the response because you essentially are asking a derivation of each question in each section of your post.
* Instead of simply answering your above post let me give you a rough timeline since you have no prior knowledge. Before Leetcode get 1 book. Go through MOST of Cracking the Coding Interview. I say most because there are sections (like the one on math) that are increasingly less important for CS interviews.
* Follow the entirety of the book taking copious notes and attempting EVERY problem (NO SHORTCUTS!). You can think of the book as essentially your version of taking college level DS and Algo courses. Once you complete the book and problems you will have benefitted twofold:
1. You will have practiced actual interview problems
2. You will have a good framework for your preparation
3. You will have 90% of the fundamentals down for all possible coding problems
4. You should have / will have identified your weaknesses and know where to focus your study.

* Follow the book’s guidelines on soft skills, resume prep, study timeline as well. Use it holistically as it was meant, it is an excellent resource.

* I know you prefer online resources but this book is the most well rounded comprehensive interview prep book (ie it covers a lot of ground relatively succinctly that you will need for interviews, including system design).
* Unfortunately I don’t believe this book is always sufficient prep by itself. So after you work through it your next step is to:
1. Get leetcode premium
2. Take the Grokking the System Design course

* Use Leetcode Premium specifically to do problems that are tagged to companies you are interested in and to do additional practice on areas you are weak at (ie if you suck at Dynamic Programming sort by all top rated DP problems and do them from easiest to hardest to build your intuition).

* Use Grokking the System Design Interview to cover ground not covered in Cracking the Coding Interview (CTCI). CTCI has a lot of great breadth but falls short of depth in some areas, this is one of them.

* Your last step / piece of overarching advice here is to create a timeline of when you would like to interview and work backwards. Once you are starting to seriously think about interviewing it is time to both practice problems for time and to do mock interviews (interviewing.io etc). Do your prep only with a pen / paper and a whiteboard (if that is the medium you expect to be interviewing in) and work on time.

* Once you hit the interviewing stage it is usually time to start scheduling some interviews you aren’t as psyched about for a test run. You need to get used to performing with interview jitters as well.

* So to recap:

* CTCI (maybe 3 months if no prior knowledge) -> Leetcode + Grokking (a month to start shoring things up) -> Keep Leetcoding / Practice + Doing mocks 1/2 times a week (a month) -> assess your progress if you’re ready to start interviewing -> Start doing interviews with lower priority companies -> Schedule interviews with FAANG


=> Google SWE (Blind: teamblind.com/article/Thank-you-Blind-JpZWEdHg)
* Did about 300 LC [20/50/30] (I ended up getting leetcode premium) (about 7 months)
* Some good tips for approaching leetcode: I eased into it with lc easy, put a lot of weight on medium and try to challenge myself with hard. If you can't solve a problem, don't look at the answer. Skip it and work on another one. I'll come back to the question and give it another try. Try to look for hints. If you still can't answer, look at the answer. Come back to the question again a month later and give it another try. Before you look at any answers, always remember to try it first.
* Read Cracking the Coding Interview and Computer Science Distilled. Also took Grokking the System Design Interview course. Watched a ton of cs-related youtube videos in my spare time.
* After getting LC out of the way, I wanted to get an idea of what the criteria was. I foudn a hiring manager on rooftop slushie. They took a look at my resume and gave me a referral. I also got some help regarding the behavioral portion, things like what they're looking for, what qualities I should present, and what kind of personal experiences to bring up.

=> Google SWE (https://www.rooftopslushie.com/request/Google-Onsite-Limit-1202)
=> What's required is practice - lots of it. Coding, system design, leadership.
* Plan for 1-2 months of sincere preparation (2-3 hours every day). About an hour in the morning and an hour in the evening, with larger blocks of time during weekends to take on larger chunks of tasks. I've provided some details on the interview prep for slightly more senior role (L5).
* Coding/problem solving: these are straightforward. You will be presented with a problem and you must think of an approach to solve it, implement code to demonstrate the solution, and reason about its runtime complexity (time and space). The interviewer might add some additional constraints to reason about efficiency or alternative approaches. Your goal is to arrive at the efficient solution and reason about the merits and pitfalls of various approaches along the way. Practicing the medium and hard questions on leetcode (www.leetcode.com) would be helpful here.
* The leadership question will be behavioral and you will be asked how to handle various types of situations like a disengaged teammate or conflicts of opinions etc.
* The system design interview will focus on how design a common use-case, for example a large e-commerce website or a music streaming service. The key is to focus on how to handle the complexities using well known strategies from distributed systems, stream-processing, map-reduce, services, pub-sub etc. You should have practiced enough problems so that common use-cases roll off your memory easily.
* Lastly, the ML interviews will be focused on a machine learning problem. The key here is to show that you grasp the various skills involved in being an ML engineer. This includes:
    * how to frame your objectives (what loss function will you optimize, why?),
    * select the right dataset (what data will you collect to train your model. Why? how to avoid bias and feedback loops. How will you collect labels or ground truth)
    * feature engineering - how will you transform the raw data into a form useful for models (e.g. normalization, missing values, data cleaning, etc)
    * model selection - what model to use for what type of problem and why (boosted decision trees, deep learning, logistic regression, factorization models etc)
    * training, validation and inference - how will the system be setup how will you do validation, how to address train/test skew etc.
    * productionization - how to monitor performance, how to handle problems, what if new model is corrupt or new training batch is incorrect etc.
* There might be a small coding session involved in the ML interview also, e.g. write code for autocomplete functionality on android keyboard.
* Finally, focus on leadership style interview questions. Learn about the company's leadership and culture. Practice talking about your top 3 projects that you accomplished that had measurable impact (you must know the metrics and numbers that measure success) and that you liked to work on. There will be one set of questions from your resume - your most interesting project and what you liked about it. Walk through a challenging project that you delivered, what was the challenge and how did you overcome it? Then there will be a few hypotheticals thrown in to see how you handle those situations (e.g. what if the eng lead of the partner team disagrees with the schedule for the project you're putting together for the team. How would you approach this situation)
* There will be questions around culture fit and your interest in working here. What's your favorite product from the company that you're interviewing? Why? Why do you want to work here? What excites you the most? Where do you see yourself in 5, 10 years? What are your career goals etc.
* Finally, another set of questions around people and communication skills. How will you handle difficult situations. How would you handle conflicts in a cross functional project spanning multiple teams with differing goals and priorities.

=> Google Interview Process (https://www.rooftopslushie.com/request/Google-SWE-Interview-Process-and-Timeline-24)
* The interview process starts with a recruiter reviewing a person's background to decide if it's worth interviewing them, and also what level they should be considered for. This is a process that I don't have any insight into as a SWE. (One thing to note, though, is that this is the only step where a candidate's resume really matters. Beyond this step, interviewers do theoretically have the ability to view a candidate's resume, but it's not supposed to influence the ratings we give, so a lot of interviewers don't even bother reading it).
* The next step is a phone interview. When the phone interview is scheduled, the recruiter will send the candidate a link to a shared Google doc which will be used for the interview. When the interview happens, a SWE will call the candidate on the phone, and ask them one or more algorithms questions, which the candidate should code a solution to in the Google doc. (Typically it's just one question).
* The phone interview is scheduled to be 45 minutes long, and interviewers are supposed to leave around 10 minutes for the candidate to ask questions at the end, so there's usually roughly 35 minutes to solve the coding question(s). Interviewers typically like to ask questions where the optimal solution is feasible to reach within the allotted time, although there is no hard rule about this.
* After the phone interview, the interviewer will submit an interview rating which consists of:
An overall rating for the candidate, which is one of: strong no hire, no hire, lean no hire, lean hire, hire, strong hire.
A short explanation for the overall rating
A 4-point rating & short explanation for each of a few categories like "coding skills", "comprehension and communication", etc. (These changed pretty recently for SWEs, and are slightly different for intern interviews, so I don't remember the exact categories).
Optionally, a 4-point rating & short explanation for more personality-related categories that measure aspects of leadership or "googleyness", which historically most interviewers leave blank. There's recently been a push to be more deliberate about evaluating these, but I'm not aware of the details yet.
A longer document with notes on how the whole interview went
The timeline for an interviewer to submit this feedback is less than 2 business days in most cases.
* After a recruiter receives the feedback from the phone interview, they will decide whether or not to bring the candidate for onsite interviews. (Or, rarely, they will schedule a second phone interview. From what I understand, this mostly happens because the first interviewer screwed up somehow, and isn't really anything to worry about). I don't have insight into how long recruiters usually take at this step.
* When a candidate comes for an onsite interview, a candidate will usually be scheduled for 4 interviews plus a "lunch interview". Usually two interviews, then lunch, then the last two. The only major differences between onsite and phone interviews are that onsites happen on a whiteboard, and interviewers more often use the full 45 minutes to ask the interview questions, since candidates have time to ask their lunch interviewer questions. Onsites are also somewhat more likely to have 2 (easier) questions, instead of just 1, since there is more time. The lunch interviewer does not rate the candidate, and is just there to make small talk and answer questions (though I think this might be different for different roles or something? In any case, it wouldn't be kept a secret if the candidate was being evaluated during lunch).
* The onsite interviewers submit the same style of feedback as phone interviewers. After they have all submitted feedback, the recruiter will decide whether or not to refer the candidate to a hiring committee. A candidate with very little or no positive feedback usually is outright rejected, but people with mixed feedback or better usually go to the hiring committee. I've never been on a hiring committee, so I don't know a lot about what happens at this point, but the high-level summary is that the committee will review all of the phone and onsite interviewers' feedback and use that to issue a hire/no hire decision. Hiring committees might also recommend a hire, but at a lower level than the candidate was evaluated for. Candidates often don't hear back about the hiring committee decision for at least 2 weeks.
* If the committee recommends a hire, then at that point the recruiter will schedule "fit calls" with managers from a few teams, to see if there's mutual interest between the candidate and that manager. (Sometimes this step may happen before the onsite interviews, instead. I don't know what determines this). Fit calls are pretty unstructured, and not really fail-able, in the sense that even if none of the teams you talk to are interested, the recruiter will likely just schedule you with more teams (this may be less true if the fit calls happen before onsite interviews). That said, getting an offer is dependent on matching with a team, so candidates should try to ask good questions and be personable. After matching with a team, a candidate will get an offer. I don't know how the offer amount is determined.